(ncpa.ra.100.001)=
# Overhead Policy

**file**: *NCPA.RA.100.001_active_1999-01-12_overheadPolicy*

**status**: active

## Purpose

"*The purpose of this document is to reduce to writing an understanding between all parties regarding the distribution of overhead funds generated by NCPA. This policy evolved from several meetings. This document attempts to capture the outcome of those meetings.*"

## Definition of Terms

The terms "F\&A", "overhead", and "indirect costs" are synonymous. The current indirect cost rate is published on the Office of Research and Economic Development [Current Rates and Codes](https://www.research.olemiss.edu/proposal-development/current-rates) page. The rate agreement is negotiated with the US Dept. of Health and Human Services (DHHS). A copy of the rate agreement is available [here (link to PDF)](https://www.research.olemiss.edu/sites/default/files/UniversityofMississippiIDCFY2021FY2025.pdf)

## Policy Document and Distribution Procedure

The NCPA is a research unit, dependent entirely upon external funding. Therefore, the distribution of indirect costs are central to the operational integrity of the center. The original document shown below as {numref}`overheadFig001` is the current and active overhead distribution policy enacted in August 2000 by NCPA Director, Dr. Henry (Hank) Bass; VC for Research, Dr. Ronald Borne; VC for Administration and Finance, Mr. Johnny Williams; and Provost Carolyn Staton. The document as shown serves as an important foundational document as well as an important historical document bearing handwritten notes in the top margin noting copies for Dr. Jack Seiner in August 2009 and Dr. Jim Chambers in November 2011; both of whom served as NCPA directors.

{numref}`overheadFig002` describes the distribution of the overhead funds. This is a unique feature of the NCPA operation causing "fenced" funds (or reserve accounts) to be maintained for the fiscal safeguard of the center.

```{figure} NCPA.RA.100.001_active_1999-01-12_overheadPolicy_f001.jpg
:name: overheadFig001
:alt: UM Overhead Policy
:width: 90%
:align: center

Overhead policy document signed August 2000.
```

```{figure} NCPA.RA.100.001_active_1999-01-12_overheadPolicy_f002.jpg
:name: overheadFig002
:alt: UM Overhead Distribution
:width: 90%
:align: center

Overhead disribution procedure.
```
